# Car-price-prediction-model
## Overview
The dataset consists of 26 different parameters via which the price of a car can be predicted. The objective is to build a linear regression model that trains on the data and then predicts the prices based on the test parameters given with least error. The jupyter notebook file attached gives a detailed insight into the process of building such a model and the parameters that were taken into account along with why some parameters were dropped. It is not a clean dataset and data cleaning was done in the first few steps of the project. The model also implements the linear regression from a file within the repository instead of scikitlearn's algorithm. Statistical models are also imported from within the repository instead of other python libraries.

## Implementation
The data needs to be one-hot-encoded as the car name and symboling columns are repetitive and will affect the weights in the model. After plotting the histogram, it was found that the data is a non-normal distribution about the mean. Then the z scores are calculated for the non-hot-encoded columns and the data is normalised and the outliers are cleaned. The final step in the preprocessing is checking for data redundancy using a heatmap to remove parameters that are highly correlated with each other. The dataset is split into 70% for the training set and 30% for the testing set. The linear regression function is imported from a file within the repository, to avoid the usage of scikit learn's database. Then multiple types of statistical errors are calculated, in order to find the deviation of the predictions from the actual data. The residuals are also calculated and plotted against the actual prices and then against the predicted prices for a deeper understanding of the distribution.
